What is a firm's Capital Structure?
The proportion of the firm's financing from current & long-term debt and equity.
What is the goal of financial management?
To maximize the current value per share of the existing stock.
What is an agency problem?
A conflict of interest between the agent and the principle.
What law created the Securities Exchange Commission?
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
What is an official accounting statement called?
Statement of Cash Flows
What is the first step in determining cash flows of the firm?
Cash Flow from Operations
What does EBITDA stand for?
Earnings Before Interest Expense, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization
What ratio takes into account all debts of maturities to all creditors?
Total Debt Ratio
The DuPont Identity tells us that ROE is affected by what three things?
Operating Efficiency, Asset Use Efficiency and Financial Leverage
What is another name for the retention ratio?
Plowback Ratio
What is the process of leaving the money in the financial market and lending it for another year called?
Compounding
What are the four classes of cash flow streams?
Perpetuity, Growing Perpetuity, Annuity and Growing Annuity
What two categories do partnerships fall into?
General partnerships and limited partnerships.
What is the goal of financial management?
The goal is to maximize the current value per share of the existing stock.
Was there ever a time when stocks had a tax advantage over bonds?
Very likely, yes
What are three factors that determine the target debt-equity ratio?
Taxes, Types of assets and Uncertainty of operating income
What is the relationship between a company’s profitability and its debt level?
Firm with low anticipated profits will likely take on a low level of debt
To what four claimants do the cash flows of the firm go to during bankruptcy proceedings?
Stockholders, bondholders, the Government and lawyers
What are two other names for the expected return on equity or stock?
Cost of equity or required return on equity
What are the names of the professors that the MM Proposition I is named after?
Modigliani and Miller
What is a bond that is issued in multiple countries but denominated in a single currency, usually the issuer’s home currency?
Eurobond
What bonds are issued in a single country and are usually denominated in that country’s currency?
Foreign Bond
What type of bond can be swapped for a fixed number of shares of stock any time before maturity?
Convertible Bond
Protective covenants can be classified into what two types?
Negative covenants and positive covenants
Which covenant limits or prohibits actions a company might take?
Negative covenant
Coupon payments are adjustable in what type of bond?
Floating-rate bonds
What is the difference between the call price and the stated value?
Call premium
During the period of prohibition, the bond is said to be what?
Call protected
What term is used frequently that means securities that are pledged as security for payment of debt?
Collateral
What indicates preference in position over other lenders?
Seniority
What is the written agreement between the corporation and its creditors?
Indenture
Dividends payable on preferred stock are either cumulative or noncumulative, but most are what?
Cumulative
Do holders of preferred stock have voting privileges?
No
What is the grant of authority to by a shareholder to someone else to vote their shares?
Proxy
With straight voting are directors elected one at a time?
Yes
What is the effect of cumulative voting?
Allow minority participation
When calculating debt ratios which market values do financial economists generally prefer?
Market Values
What is the decision often called when managers are contemplating the date to issue equity?
Timing decision
How do many commentators describe the rise and fall of the Internet stocks?
A Bubble
Conservatism is another word for what?
Underreaction
What are the two stronger types of efficiency?
Semistrong Form Efficiency and Strong Form Efficiency
What are the three conditions that lead to efficiency?
Rationality, Independent deviations from rationality and arbitrage
What are the three ways to create valuable financing opportunities?
Fool investors, reduce costs or increase subsidies or create a new security
The beta of a company is a function of a number of factors and the three most important are what?
Cyclicality if revenues, operating leverage and financial leverage
What are the two primary advantages of the CAPM?
Adjusts for risk and is applicable to companies that pay no dividends or whose dividend growth is difficult to estimate
What is the CAPM primarily used to determine?
A firm’s cost of capital
Firms with high fixed costs and low variable costs are generally said to have what?
High operating leverage
Do fixed costs change as quantity changes?
No
What three things are needed to estimate a firm's cost of equity?
Risk-free rate, market risk premium and stock beta
What is the discount rate often called?
Required return
What captures the influence of a systematic risk like inflation on a stock?
Beta coefficient
What formula implies that the expected return on a security is linearly related to its beta?
CAPM
What is CAPM?
Capital Asset Pricing Model
What does the beta measure?
The responsiveness of a security to movements in the market portfolio
What is a risk that affects a large number of assets, each to a greater or lesser degree?
Systematic risk
What is a risk that specifically affects a single asset or a small group of assets?
Unsystematic risk
How do you calculate the Sharpe ratio?
Risk premium of the asset divided by the standard deviation
What is the square root of the variance?
Standard deviation
What is another name for average?
Mean
Long-term US Government bonds are based on maturities of how many years?
20
What is the change in the price of the stock divided by the initial price?
Capital Gain
A firm's price-earnings ratio is a function of what three factors?
The per-share amount of the firm's valuable investment opportunities, the risk o the stock and the type of accounting method used by the firm
What are the two biggest stock markets in the US?
New York Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ
Where is the NASDAQ located?
No physical location; strictly a computer network
What are the three different types of license holders?
Designated Market Makers, Floor brokers and Supplemental Liquidity Providers
What is the secondary market of the stock market?
Existing shares are traded among investors
A stock's PE ratio is likely a function of what three factors?
Investment opportunities, Risk and Accounting practices
What is the rate at which the value of the investment grows?
Capital Gains Yield
What is the formula for a firm's growth rate?
Retention ratio  x Return on retained earnings (ROE)
The ratio of dividends to earnings is often called what?
Payout ratio
If a company's profit margin increases, what happens to the Sustainable Growth Rate?
Increase

